John Houlding, the lease holder of Anfield, was left with a stadium  and no team, so the board went to Scotland and signed 13 players to form  the new Liverpool Football Club in 1892.
The club's original strip was blue and white quarters.
Anfield was the original home of Everton FC in 1884, but after a rent dispute, Everton decided to move to Goodison Park in 1891.
Bill Shankly , one of the best managers ever, had to wait almost three years to experience his first Merseyside  Derby as manager of Liverpool. The game (in September 1962), finished  in a 2-2 draw.
Liverpool were unbeaten in 77% of games with Shankly in charge. (578 in total)
Bob Paisley was in charge for nine years and his first in 1974-75 was Paisley's only season without a trophy
Liverpool supporters singing ''You'll Never Walk Alone'' was featured in the Pink Floyd song, Fearless.
Kenny Dalglish was the first player-manager in English football in 1985
The very first Liverpool Football Club was created in 1857 and played to a code similar to rugby union. However, it has no relation with the modern version of the club that is in existence today.
John Houlding, the lease holder of Anfield, was left with a stadium and no team, so the board went to Scotland and signed 13 players to form the new Liverpool Football Club in 1892.Liverpool's first ever game was against Rotherham Town. They won the match 7-1 with Malcom Macvean scoring their first ever goal. That game was also the first time an English domestic team had fielded a side consisting entirely of foreign players.
Despite a 20,000 capacity stadium, Liverpool's first game was watched by just 100 supporters.
After being rejected by the Football Association, Liverpool played in the Lancashire League. Their first game was an 8-0 victory against Higher Walton with John Smith scoring Liverpool's first ever competitive goal.
The Merseyside derby has the highest amount of players sent off than any other Premier League fixture.
Liverpool were elected in to the Football Association in 1893.
Expansion of the South end of Anfield in 1906 created a larger stand called the Spion Kop, named after a Boer war battle of 1900 where over 300 men of the Lancashire regiment died, with many being from Liverpool.
Liverpool played their first ever FA Cup final in 1914 with a 1-0 loss to Burnley at Crystal Palace, the last time the event would ever be held there.
1915 saw Liverpool involved in one of the sports earliest betting scandals, with four Liverpool players being banned.
Don Welsh took charge in 1951 and Liverpool were relegated for the first time in over 50 years.
After not being able to return Liverpool to the top tier, for the first time in Liverpool's history, they sacked their manager, Don Welsh, in 1956.
Liverpool spent eight seasons in division two between 1954 and 1962.
In 1959, Liverpool suffered their most humiliating defeat up to that point with an FA Cup exit to non-league side Worcester City. This loss is said to have contributed to the exit of the manager a the time, with a man named Bill Shankley taking over the club.
After winning promotion back in to the first division, Shankley finished eighth in the league. Since that date, Liverpool have never finished below eighth and never played outside of the top flight.
In 1964 Liverpool changed their strip from red and white to the current all red that is seen today.
A local factory threatened to go on strike when Bill Shankley said he will be resigning in 1974.
Bob Paisley won a total of 21 trophies in his nine years at the club, making him Liverpool's most successful manager and one of the most successful managers at an English club.
Joe Fagan became manager in 1984 and in his first season he led Liverpool to the League title, the League Cup and the European Cup‚The first time an English club had won three trophies in a season.
Grahame Souness bought Dean Saunders from Derby County for a British record fee at the time of 2.9 million pounds.
In March 1992, ex Liverpool player and manager, Grahame Souness, suffered a heart attack which required a triple bypass operation. On his recovery, Souness sold his story to The Sun newspaper.
When ex player, Roy Evans took over from Souness, he had been on the club's payroll for close to 30 years.
Michael Stensgaard, a signing of Roy Evans, never played for the first team and had to retire from football altogether after injuring himself setting up an ironing board.
Roy Evans introduced the 3-5-2 formation in 1994, which would apparently revolutionise the English game with many other teams adopting the formation soon after.
Liverpool lost the World Club Championship final in 2005 to Sao Paulo 1-0, despite having three goals disallowed for offside.
In February of 2006, Liverpool ended an 85 year run of losses against Manchester United in the cup by beating them 1-0 at Anfield. The first victory over United in the FA Cup since 1921.
Liverpool went on to complete their biggest ever away victory in the competition with a 7-0 win over Birmingham.
In the 2007-08 season, Liverpool recorded the biggest ever Champions League margin with an 8-0 victory over Besiktas.
In 2005-06 Liverpool finished the league with the biggest points tally by a third placed team as well as their highest amount since 1988 with 82 points.
In April of 2008, Forbes magazine ranked Liverpool as the fourth most valuable club in the world.
The very first colour football transmission was of the live game between Liverpool and West Ham.
Robbie Fowler holds the club and Premier League record for the fastest hattrick standing at 4 minutes and 32 seconds.
Liverpool's Xabi Alonso holds the English record for the longest goal scored from open play standing at 64 metres.
A Liverpool supporter by the name of Michael Shields is currently serving out a ten year attempted murder sentence for a crime he is said not to have committed. 
